what are ETFs when you read I have
heard on some financial economic report or video site
the acronym ETF
means that we are talking about
exchange traded funds which in Italian
we can translate into funds listed on the
stock exchange even if the concept of ATF is
slightly more complicated we can
see the f acts as
automatic tools that replicate the indexes of
bonds in shares and raw materials and
of the real estate sector and consequently
also replicate the returns of these
assets which can, as always, be
positive or negative in Italy they have been
treated since 2002 they can be
bought and  sold just like
collections and are
officially cataloged as listed index funds
the first ETF in the world
was born in 1993 and was launched on
mc's the American stock exchange
at that time ETFs were called
trackers and the task of the first was to
reproduce the index exactly  s p 500
what advantages do ETFs offer ETFs
offer various advantages to
investors
first of all they can be purchased quickly
and easily as they are
treated by almost all banks
Italian financial intermediaries in fact
there are no time limits and they
can be bought and sold easily
from the moment  that ETFs are instruments
that replicate financial indices
made up of different securities, they are also
an excellent opportunity for
diversification, which is why they are
considered assets that allow you to
reduce the risks deriving from a
lack of diversification
on the cost front, passive management
that automatically replicates the indices
market allows ETFs to
remain at contained levels
according to a 2017 study by Deutsche Bank
Bloomberg Finance and Reuters the
average current expenses observed in Europe
ranged from 0.27 percent of
assets managed for bond ETFs
to 0.72 percent for  alternative ETFs,
finally, another positive characteristic
of these instruments is the lack of
incoming and outgoing connections,
generally only the
bank's commissions need to be borne,
the difference between physical ETF funds and
synthetic ETFs, we can group
ETFs into two large families and the
difference between the two is very simple:
in physical replication ETFs
the manager actually purchases and holds
all the securities belonging to the indices
that the TF must replicate. This process
follows the percentage weight of the individual
securities that make up the index so the
physical markets become one  small copy
of the reference basket for example
if we examine ltf amundi s p500
jesi gvc etf dr we discover that it has
the objective of replicating as
accurately as possible the performance
of the s p500 index yesterday regardless
of whether the trend is upwards
or on the downside
this sub-fund offers exposure to
securities compliant with
sustainability criteria while maintaining
similar sectoral weights to those of the
s p500
purchases
the same securities in the
underlying basket with the same percentage weights
therefore you can find Apple shares
for 8.13 percent of the total
Microsoft for 7.35 percent
Amazon.com for 5.73 percent and so
on
instead  synthetic replication f acts
are based on derivative instruments that
focus on different types of securities and
replicate the reference index to
do so they exploit the swat mechanism
derivative contracts that allow those who
purchase them to copy the performance of the
market indices without
actually having to  purchase the securities in the
basket as happens with physical ETFs
in this case the replication is one
hundred percent precise
as we can see from the example of the
ETF ex trackers s p 500 sister lucia is tf1
c and it also replicates the s p500 index but
it  it does so in a synthetic manner, therefore
replicating the securities of the
index basket through swap contracts,
in fact if we read the
information sheet of this ETF under
investment methodology we find the
wording most suitable substitute manner and
just below the
banks with the  which the manager of this
ETF
has signed the contracts for his
stock and bond ETFs
if we delve deeper into the different
types of ETFs we find ourselves faced with
a first differentiation between
stock ETFs and bond ETFs,
stock ETFs, as you can imagine
from the name, replicate the trend  of
stock indices the main stock ATFs
can be divided according
to some characteristics,
first of all we can have ETFs by
sector therefore related to the stock indices
of video games,
artificial intelligence or
renewable energy and so on
another type of stock ETFs and
that for  country or by macro geographical region
here we find for example ETFs that
replicate the stock indices of North
America or Europe or of
emerging markets and the Brics
and so on a third type of stock ETF
and that by
investment style in this case we could
choose  between ETFs that replicate indices
of stocks with high dividends or
rapidly growing stocks or stocks
differentiated by value and many other
options,
moving on to bond ETFs which
therefore replicate the performance of
bond indices, we can find
bond ETFs that replicate the
indices on the basis of ratings and
therefore  only triple bonds
or only bonds from
triple bit upwards we can then have bond
ETFs that replicate indices
depending on the type of bond therefore
convertible bonds new zero
coupon a third type already seen in the
case of stock ETFs and by sector
there are still bond ETFs that
replicate  only government bonds or
only bonds issued by companies of a
certain type of a certain size
finally the last type of bond ETF
concerns the maturity
of the underlying bonds we can
therefore have bond ETFs that
replicate bond indices with a
maturity of 3 years or 5 years  either at 10 years
or beyond twenty years ETF for
raw materials and short ETFs
finally we find two other types of
ETFs those linked to the hands
the first ones the so-called short ETFs ETFs
linked to raw materials are
generally differentiated by sector
so we can find ETFs linked to
precious metals such as gold, silver and
platinum ETFs linked to
energy commodities mainly oil
gas and sustainable energy and ETFs linked
to agricultural products
the last type that we present to you
today groups together ETFs linked to
speculative shares
which include short ETFs this
name derives  from the fact that these
instruments have an opposite trend to
that of the underlying and therefore serve
to hedge against possible risks, for
example if my underlying is the
Nasdaq index and is losing 2 percent the
short TFs should instead earn 2
percent
another  ETF which is part of this
family is the one that uses
financial leverage to double or triple
the performance of the underlying
in this case for example if the Nasdaq
grows by 1 percent
the Alleva index will grow by 3 percent
but here we are talking about one  tool for
expert traders who use it to
maximize earnings
obviously as always happens in these
cases if the instrument triples the earnings
or even triples the losses then
we recommend using it very
carefully in
fact if we take the extra double leverage tfas
that if you are p500 2 for  nevruz del
is what you ctf and we compare it for
example with the extra tfs that are simple
500 sister lucia ts1 c seen before
we immediately notice the difference in
performance despite having both
the simple as a reference index in
those hundred
in summary the etfs are among the
instruments  more useful and safe for
savers and which allow you to
invest quickly and with low
commissions in different asset
classes and sectors in a diversified manner,
thus limiting the risks associated with
portfolios made up of a few financial instruments,
all clear, well, the next
episode
[Music]